docs/index.md, before:

# autopep723

A CLI tool that dynamically generates [PEP 723](https://peps.python.org/pep-0723/) metadata for Python scripts by analyzing their imports and dependencies. Just run your script with `autopep723`:

## Quick Start

```bash
# Run directly without installing
uvx autopep723 script.py

# Or install permanently
uv tool install autopep723
autopep723 script.py
```

`autopep723` analyzes Python scripts to detect third-party imports and generates PEP 723 inline script metadata. This enables tools like `uv run` to automatically install dependencies when executing scripts.

**Key Features:**
- ⚡ **Zero dependencies** - uses only Python standard library
- 🪶 **Minimal footprint** - perfect for use as a `uv run` wrapper
- 🔍 **Automatic dependency detection** via AST analysis
- ✅ **PEP 723 compliant** metadata generation

## Shebang Usage

Make your scripts executable with automatic dependency management:

```python
#!/usr/bin/env -S uvx autopep723
import requests
import numpy as np

# Your script runs with dependencies auto-installed!
```

`uvx` installs packages on-the-fly in an ephemeral environment, so no permanent installation is needed.

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:caption: Documentation

usage
examples
how-it-works
api
contributing
```

## Related Projects

- [PEP 723](https://peps.python.org/pep-0723/) - Inline script metadata specification
- [uv tools guide](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/tools/) - Tool management with uv
- [uv issue #6283](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv/issues/6283) - Autodetect dependencies proposal

Commit message:

Improve README and documentation consistency
- Simplify README to focus on core value proposition
- Fix contradiction between 'zero dependencies' and being a 'uv run wrapper'
- Add remote script example in Quick Start section
- Highlight 'add mode' feature in Features list
- Update docs/index.md to match simplified README style
- Improve consistency between README and documentation

Changes:
- Replace 'Zero dependencies' with 'Lightweight' for accuracy
- Add example of remote script usage
- Add 'Add mode' feature with example command
- Streamline messaging to focus on being a uv run wrapper
- Remove redundant sections and improve clarity

docs/index.md, after:

# autopep723

`autopep723` is a tiny wrapper on top of `uv run` that automatically detects third-party dependencies of Python scripts. Forget about manually managing dependencies for simple experiments!

## Quick Start

The easiest way to use `autopep723` is via `uvx`:

```bash
# Run directly without installing
uvx autopep723 script.py
```

To install the tool permanently:

```bash
uv tool install autopep723
autopep723 script.py
```

## Features

- ⚡ **Zero dependencies** - uses only Python standard library
- 🪶 **Minimal footprint** - perfect as `uv run` wrapper
- 🔍 **Automatic dependency detection** via AST analysis
- ✅ **PEP 723 compliant** metadata generation
- 🌐 **Remote script support** - run scripts directly from URLs

## Shebang Integration

You can use `autopep723` directly as a shebang:

```python
#!/usr/bin/env -S uvx autopep723
import requests
import numpy as np

# Your script here...
```

Then running the script will automatically install the required dependencies in an ephemeral environment!

```bash
./script.py
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:caption: Documentation

usage
examples
how-it-works
api
contributing
```

## Related Projects

- [PEP 723](https://peps.python.org/pep-0723/) - Inline script metadata specification
- [uv tools guide](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/tools/) - Tool management with uv
- [uv issue #6283](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv/issues/6283) - Autodetect dependencies proposal
